Custom operations (#2589)
scala/docs.scala-lang: _overviews/core/custom-collection-operations.md

to `IterableOps[A, Iterable, C]` (for some element type `A` and some collection type `C`). There are
instances for actual collection types and also for `String` and `Array`.

{% endtab %}
{% tab 'Scala 3' for=sumBy_3 %}

We expect the `sumBy` to work on any type that is *like* a collection, such as `String`

> and `Array`. Fortunately, the type `IsIterable[Repr]` has implicit instances for all types `Repr` that can be converted

Reviewer: In this case actually `IsIterable` is never involved - to the String/Array is directly applied the conversions `wrapString` or `wrapFooArray` from Predef

> and `Array`. Fortunately, the type `IsIterable[Repr]` has implicit instances for all types `Repr` that can be converted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and `Array`. Fortunately, these can be converted
```

> to `IterableOps[A, Iterable, C]` (for some element type `A` and some collection type `C`) and there are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to `IterableOps[A, Iterable, C]` (for some element type `A` and some collection type `C`).
```

> instances for actual collection types and also for `String` and `Array`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: I think this code example is necessary because some rewriting is needed
~~~suggestion
```scala
import scala.collection.IterableOnce
import scala.collection.generic.IsIterable

def sumByImpl[A, B: Numeric](coll: IterableOnce[A], f: A => B): B =
  val it = coll.iterator
  var result = f(it.next())
  while it.hasNext do
    result = summon[Numeric[B]].plus(result, f(it.next()))
  result

extension [Repr](coll: Repr)(using it: IsIterable[Repr])
  def sumBy[B: Numeric](f: it.A => B): B =
    sumByImpl(it(coll), f)
```
~~~

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To support all collection-like data types, change the parameter to be `IterableOps`:
~~~scala
import scala.collection.IterableOps

extension [A](coll: IterableOps[A, Iterable, ?])
  def sumBy[B: Numeric](f: A => B): B = ... // same as before
~~~
```

> 

Reviewer: I think it will be useful to show how to change the code example to support this:
```scala
import scala.collection.generic.IsIterable

extension [Repr](repr: Repr)(using iter: IsIterable[Repr])
  def sumBy[B: Numeric](f: iter.A => B): B =
    val coll = iter(repr)
    val it = coll.iterator
    var result = f(it.next())
    while it.hasNext do
      result = summon[Numeric[B]].plus(result, f(it.next()))
    result
```

Author: You're right.

does not extend `Seq`. Similarly, there is an `IsMap` type that makes operations work with
both `Map` and `MapView` values.

{% endtab %}
{% tab 'Scala 3' for=sumBy_4 %}

In such a case, again, the most straightforward solution would be to take as parameter a `Seq` instead

> of an `Iterable` or an `IterableOnce`. Similarly to `IsIterable`, `IsSeq` provides a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of an `Iterable` or an `IterableOnce`. Similarly to `IterableOnce`, String and Array also have a
```

conversion to `SeqOps[A, Iterable, C]` (for some types `A` and `C`).

> `IsSeq` also make your operation works on `SeqView` values, because `SeqView`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
changing the extension parameter to `SeqOps` will also make your operation works on `SeqView` values, because `SeqView`
```

> does not extend `Seq`. Similarly, there is an `IsMap` type that makes operations work with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
does not extend `Seq`. Similarly, a `MapOps` extension parameter will make operations work with
```

    }
  }
~~~
{% endtab %}
{% tab 'Scala 3' for=Gen_5 %}
~~~ scala
import scala.collection.Factory

given[CC[_], A: Gen](using Factory[A, CC[A]]): Gen[CC[A]] with
  def get: CC[A] =
    val lazyElements =
      LazyList.unfold(()) { _ =>
        if Random.nextInt(100) < 10 then None
        else Some((summon[Gen[A]].get, ()))

>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      }
```

implicit def IntersperseOperation[Repr](coll: Repr)(implicit seq: IsSeq[Repr]): IntersperseOperation[seq.A] =
  new IntersperseOperation(seq(coll))
~~~
{% endtab %}
{% tab 'Scala 3' for=intersperse_2 %}
~~~ scala
import scala.collection.{ AbstractIterator, AbstractView, Factory, SeqOps }

> import scala.collection.generic.IsSeq

Reviewer: Looks like this is not used
```suggestion
```

> extension[A](seqOps: SeqOps[A, Iterable, _])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
extension [A](seqOps: SeqOps[A, Iterable, ?])
```

> extension[A](seqOps: SeqOps[A, Iterable, _])

Reviewer: This whole code example should be replaced by the following, which uses `IsSeq`:
```scala
import scala.collection.{ AbstractIterator, AbstractView, Factory, SeqOps }
import scala.collection.generic.IsSeq

extension [Repr](coll: Repr)(using seq: IsSeq[Repr])
  def intersperse[B >: seq.A, That](sep: B)(using factory: Factory[B, That]): That =
    val seqOps = seq(coll)
    factory.fromSpecific(new AbstractView[B]:
      def iterator = new AbstractIterator[B]:
        val it = seqOps.iterator
        var intersperseNext = false
        def hasNext = intersperseNext || it.hasNext
        def next() =
          val elem = if intersperseNext then sep else it.next()
          intersperseNext = !intersperseNext && it.hasNext
          elem
    )
```

Author: I agree. I propose to make the same update for scala 2 as well... I will make a commit with these updates

implicit def IntersperseOperation[Repr](coll: Repr)(implicit seq: IsSeq[Repr]): IntersperseOperation[Repr, seq.type] =
  new IntersperseOperation(coll, seq)
~~~
{% endtab %}
{% tab 'Scala 3' for=intersperse_5 %}

> ~~~ scala

Reviewer: this code example can be replaced by a single extension method:
```scala
import scala.collection.{ AbstractIterator, AbstractView, SeqOps, BuildFrom }

extension [A](seqOps: SeqOps[A, Iterable, ?])
  def intersperse[B >: A, That](sep: B)(using bf: BuildFrom[seqOps.type, B, That]): That =
    bf.fromSpecific(seqOps)(new AbstractView[B]:
      // same as before
    )
```

> ~~~ scala

Reviewer: this example can be replaced by the following single extension:
```scala
import scala.collection.{ AbstractIterator, AbstractView, BuildFrom }
import scala.collection.generic.IsSeq

extension [Repr](coll: Repr)(using seq: IsSeq[Repr])
  def intersperse[B >: seq.A, That](sep: B)(using bf: BuildFrom[Repr, B, That]): That =
    val seqOps = seq(coll)
    bf.fromSpecific(coll)(new AbstractView[B]:
      // same as before
    )
```

Author: Yep: Scala 3 is very funny
